Version update mp5 (#120)
OpenLiberty/guide-cloud-aws: README.adoc

== What you'll learn

You will learn how to deploy two microservices in Open Liberty containers to a {kube} cluster on Amazon Elastic Container Service for Kubernetes (EKS). 

> Kubernetes is an open source container orchestrator that automates many tasks involved in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications. If you would like to learn more about Kubernetes, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/kubernetes-intro.html[Deploying microservices to Kubernetes^] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestrator that automates many tasks that are involved in deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications. If you would like to learn more about Kubernetes, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/kubernetes-intro.html[Deploying microservices to Kubernetes^] guide.
```

Reviewer 2: "Open source" is an exception to the rule- IBM terminology says not to hyphenate it
```
open-source  (adjective)
    Do not use. Use "open source" unless referring to the Open Source Initiative.
```

> There are different cloud-based solutions for running your Kubernetes workloads. A cloud-based infrastructure enables you to focus on developing your microservices without worrying about low-level infrastructure details for deployment. Using a cloud helps you to easily scale and manage your microservices in a high-availability setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different cloud-based solutions for running your Kubernetes workloads. Cloud-based infrastructure enables you to focus on developing your microservices without worrying about low-level infrastructure details for deployment. Using a cloud helps you to easily scale and manage your microservices in a high-availability setup.
```

> Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers a managed Kubernetes service called Amazon Elastic Container Service for {kube} (EKS). EKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on AWS without needing to install or maintain your own Kubernetes control plane. It provides a hosted {kube} cluster that you can deploy your microservices to. You will use EKS with Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). Amazon ECR is a private registry that is used to store and distribute your container images. Note, because EKS is not free, there is a small cost that is associated with running this guide. See the official https://aws.amazon.com/eks/pricing/[Amazon EKS pricing^] documentation for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon Web Services (AWS) offers a managed Kubernetes service called Amazon Elastic Container Service for {kube} (EKS). EKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on AWS without needing to install or maintain your Kubernetes control plane. It provides a hosted {kube} cluster where you can deploy your microservices. You will use EKS with Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR). Amazon ECR is a private registry that is used to store and distribute your container images. Note, because EKS is not free, there is a small cost that is associated with running this guide. See the official https://aws.amazon.com/eks/pricing/[Amazon EKS pricing^] documentation for more details.
```

Reviewer 2: I would also add a comma after AWS here:

EKS simplifies the process of running Kubernetes on AWS, without needing to install....

Before you begin, the following additional tools need to be installed:

> * *Docker:* You need a containerization software for building containers. Kubernetes supports various container types, but you will use Docker in this guide. For installation instructions, refer to the official https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker^] documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *Docker:* You need containerization software for building containers. Kubernetes supports various container types, but you will use Docker in this guide. For installation instructions, refer to the official https://docs.docker.com/install/[Docker^] documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: I would leave this as is- the "a" indicates that you you to choose some particular software from the various options that are out there

* *kubectl:* You need the Kubernetes command-line tool `kubectl` to interact with your Kubernetes cluster. See the official https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/#install-kubectl[Install and Set Up kubectl^] documentation for information about downloading and setting up `kubectl` on your platform.

* *IAM Authenticator:* To allow IAM authentication for your Amazon EKS cluster, you must install the AWS IAM Authenticator for Kubernetes. Follow the https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/install-aws-iam-authenticator.html[Installing aws-iam-authenticator^] instructions to install the AWS IAM Authenticator on your platform. 

* *eksctl:* In this guide, you will use the `eksctl` Command Line Interface (CLI) tool for provisioning your EKS cluster. Navigate to the https://github.com/weaveworks/eksctl/releases[eksctl releases page^] and download the latest stable release. Extract the archive and add the directory with the extracted files to your path.

> * *AWS CLI:* You will need to use the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI). AWS CLI Version 2 is the release of the AWS CLI that is intended for use in production environments, and the version that should be used in this guide. All installers for AWS CLI version 2 include and use an embedded copy of Python, independent of any other Python version that you might have installed. Install the AWS CLI by following the instructions in the official https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html[Installing the AWS CLI^] documentation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* *AWS CLI:* You will need to use the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI). AWS CLI Version 2 is the release of the AWS CLI that is intended for use in production environments and the version that should be used in this guide. All installers for AWS CLI version 2 include and use an embedded copy of Python, independent of any other Python version that you might have installed. Install the AWS CLI by following the instructions in the official https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html[Installing the AWS CLI^] documentation. 
```

Reviewer 2: I'd go a little further to make the sentence less convoluted- see my suggestion

> * *AWS CLI:* You will need to use the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI). AWS CLI Version 2 is the release of the AWS CLI that is intended for use in production environments, and the version that should be used in this guide. All installers for AWS CLI version 2 include and use an embedded copy of Python, independent of any other Python version that you might have installed. Install the AWS CLI by following the instructions in the official https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html[Installing the AWS CLI^] documentation. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* *AWS CLI:* You will need to use the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI). For this guide, use AWS CLI Version 2, which is intended for use in production environment. All installers for AWS CLI version 2 include and use an embedded copy of Python, independent of any other Python version that you might have installed. Install the AWS CLI by following the instructions in the official https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/install-cliv2.html[Installing the AWS CLI^] documentation. 
```

Author: Updated but not through this commit

=== Configuring the AWS CLI

> Before you configure the AWS CLI, you need to create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)user. Navigate to the https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/users[Identity and Access Management^]users dashboard and create a user through the UI. While creating a user, you must give the user `programmatic access` when selecting the AWS access type. You will also be promptedto add the user to a group. A group allows you to specify permissions for multiple users. If you do not have an existing group, you need to create a new one. Be sure to take noteof the `AWS Access Key ID` and `AWS Secret Access Key`. After the AWS CLI is installed, it must be configured by running the AWS configure command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you configure the AWS CLI, you need to create an AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM)user. Navigate to the https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/users[Identity and Access Management^] users dashboard and create a user through the UI. While creating a user, you must give the user `programmatic access` when selecting the AWS access type. You will also be prompted to add the user to a group. A group allows you to specify permissions for multiple users. If you do not have an existing group, you need to create a new one. Be sure to take note of the `AWS Access Key ID` and `AWS Secret Access Key`. After the AWS CLI is installed, it must be configured by running the AWS configure command. 
```

> You will be prompted for several pieces of information, including an `AWS Access Key ID` and an `AWS Secret Access Key`. These keys are associated with the AWS Identity and AccessManagement (IAM) user that you created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be prompted for several pieces of information, including an `AWS Access Key ID` and an `AWS Secret Access Key`. These keys are associated with the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user that you created.
```

Now that your container images are built, deploy them using a Kubernetes resource definition.

> A Kubernetes resource definition is a yaml file that contains a description of all your deployments, services, or any other resources that you want to deploy. All resources can also be deleted from the cluster by using the same yaml file that you used to deploy them.The `kubernetes.yaml` resource definition file is provided for you. If you are interested in learning more about the Kubernetes resource definition, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/kubernetes-intro.html[Deploying microservices to Kubernetes^]guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Kubernetes resource definition is a yaml file that contains a description of all your deployments, services, or any other resources that you want to deploy. All resources can also be deleted from the cluster by using the same yaml file that you used to deploy them. The `kubernetes.yaml` resource definition file is provided for you. If you are interested in learning more about the Kubernetes resource definition, check out the https://openliberty.io/guides/kubernetes-intro.html[Deploying microservices to Kubernetes^] guide.
```

```

You will see an output similar to the following:

[source, role="no_copy"]
```
...
    {
        "Description": "Allow nodes to communicate with each other (all ports)",
        "GroupId": "sg-035c858e1ff9c52f1",
        "UserId": "208872073932"
    },
    {
        "Description": "Allow managed and unmanaged nodes to communicate with each other (all ports)",
        "GroupId": "sg-04a0c50049c10ae54",
        "UserId": "208872073932"
    }
...
```

Copy the value of the `GroupId` which description is "Allow managed and unmanaged nodes to communicate with each other (all ports)". In this example output, the value is `sg-04a0c50049c10ae54`.

Then, add the following rules to the security group to allow incoming traffic through ports `31000` and `32000`. Don't forget to substitute `[security-group-id]` for the `GroupId` in the output of the previous command.

[role=command]
```
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --protocol tcp --port 31000 --group-id [security-group-id] --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress --protocol tcp --port 32000 --group-id [security-group-id] --cidr 0.0.0.0/0
```

> After you are finished adding the inbound rules to the security group, you might need to wait a few minutes before you try to access the `system` and `inventory` microservices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you finish adding the inbound rules to the security group, you might need to wait a few minutes before you try to access the `system` and `inventory` microservices.
```

include::finish/inventory/pom.xml[]
----

> A few tests are included for you to test the basic functionality of the microservices. If a test failure occurs, then you might have introduced a bug into the code. To run the tests, wait for all pods to be in the ready state before you proceed further. The default properties that are defined in the [hotspot]`pom.xml` file are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A few tests are included for you to test the basic functionality of the microservices. If a test failure occurs, then you might have introduced a bug into the code. To run the tests, wait for all pods to be in the ready state before you proceed further. The default properties defined in the [hotspot]`pom.xml` file are:
```

Reviewer 2: I would leave this as is

system-deployment-677b9f5d9c-nqzcf     1/1       Running   0          7m
----

> Observe that in this case the `system` microservice is running in the pod called `system-deployment-677b9f5d9c-nqzcf`. Substitute the name of your pod into the following command to see more details about the pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Observe that in this case, the `system` microservice is running in the pod called `system-deployment-677b9f5d9c-nqzcf`. Substitute the name of your pod into the following command to see more details about the pod:
```

== Great work! You're done!

> You just deployed two microservices running in Open Liberty to AWS EKS. You also learned how to use `kubectl` to deploy your microservices on a {kube} cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You just deployed two microservices running in Open Liberty to AWS EKS. You also learned how to use the `kubectl` command to deploy your microservices on a {kube} cluster.
```
